This is a story that I believe will touch your heart
as much as it has ours.
It's about a man who had reached a point
of total despair and could see no way out.
With his vision so narrowed and with no hope remaining,
he made all of the proper preparations to end his life,
when at the last hours,
he logged on to our site looking for a miracle,
and found it.
(heartwarming music)
Jeff, it's hard to believe you're the same person
that walked into Lee's office a month ago
ready to end it all.
You're downright sparkling.
What a shift.
Let's just dig right in to the genesis
of how you had found yourself there to begin with,
and where this started in life
because I think there an awful lot of people
out there that have experienced the same feelings
or do at this moment,
and can take great inspiration from your words.
So let's begin,
at what point in your life did you start experiencing
that kind of detachment or pain
to where you really considered seriously ending your life?
I think it began primarily as a teenager.
Teenage life is difficult in general,
especially these days, I believe.
But for a young, gay teenager it's even more difficult.
I came to the realization, I think at age 13,
that I was gay,
and I lived in an environment that was not supportive
whatsoever.
I felt rejection from members of my family,
rejection from friends at school,
I felt isolated.
I believed that I was the only gay person in our small town
in Ohio,
which today I know isn't true,
but at the time I felt I was the only one,
and it was a horrible depression.
I'd come home from school
and just sleep for hours and hours,
and I would wanna think of ways that I could
end the pain and end the depression
because it was so painful.
We were talking a little bit ago,
before the camera was rolling,
about the whole notion of being gay and you had mentioned
in passing, and we didn't follow up on it,
it was interesting because gay goes beyond sexuality,
Right.
And what did you mean by that?
Well being gay is not about sex necessarily.
I think being gay is really about accepting yourself
and your position or orientation in life to other people.
For the love that you feel for men
and the love that you feel for women.
Being gay doesn't mean that you do not love women.
It's not a sexual issue in nature.
I think it's much broader and very misunderstood
by those who have never experienced what it is
to be gay.
And although a lot of people throughout my lifetime
asked me, when did you choose to be gay?
And I told 'em,
well when did you choose to be straight?
"I don't really know, I was always this way."
Said, well it's the same with us.
We've always been this way it's just a matter
of when do you accept that,
and move on.
So how did your parents and family respond to you?
Well my mother surprisingly responded pretty well
by the time she knew, and that was probably in my early 30s
when she found out.
But of course as a mother she says,
"Well I always knew there was something different about you,
but I love you and accept you the way you are."
But other members of my family,
particularly those who are very religious,
biblicly, as Christians,
had a very difficult time accepting it and understanding it.
It really affected our relationship to the point
that we really don't talk that much,
unfortunately.
I'm hopeful that one day they'll come around
and not be so judgmental and will accept me
as their family.
So you went through these very painful beginning years,
in your teenage years of self-discovery, isolation,
and then you went on to do something,
I think it would sound particularly challenging,
you joined the military
and you became an officer,
and you ended up in the Pentagon.
Right.
Then what?
This had to have only created only more isolation
internally.
It's one of those contradictions that many of us
have in life,
that a young, gay teenager who feared the military
by watching Vietnam on television through the 70s
swore off ever joining the military.
And I turned 18 and what did I do?
I joined the military.
As I said, sex was not my defining issue.
I was Jeff,
and I became a medic,
and I flew medevac for about eight years in the military,
lived in the Middle East,
and experienced tremendous amounts of excitement and joy,
and grief and loss.
I was caught up in witch hunts from time to time,
and friends of mine who were thrown out of the military
for being gay.
I think that added to the fear that I had been accumulating
throughout my life, which brings us to this interview of why
I even am here,
is the fear that had built up.
Fear of rejection,
fear of the military.
Discovery.
Fear of discovery.
But I stuck with it.
I spent 20 years in the Air Force until I retired
the end of 2000,
from the Pentagon,
my last assignment was
in the Directorate for Strategic Planning for the Air Force.
I was a major and I finally called it quits.
Let's talk about that for Strategic Planning.
Fear was your big issue in life, fear.
Just encased in fear which was creating isolation,
deep, deep depression,
and a need for escape, a desire to escape.
You drew to you
currently a very interesting position at the Pentagon
because your job was to dream of worst-case scenarios.
That's right.
Ironically, I discovered this more and more now
how we do attract things into our life
and we do create our so-called reality as we perceive it.
I had experiencing fear many times to go to bed at night
and I would think of all the negative scenarios that could
possibly play out for the next day.
Whether it was arguing with my boss,
or having a relationship go sour,
or this problem, that problem.
You'd work yourself up into a frenzy
and your muscles would become tense
and you become excited,
and you realize, wait a minute, stop.
It's just a scenario that you've dreamt.
And ironically, I believe that I attracted to myself
the position at the Pentagon in Strategic Planning
where part of the job was to dream up scenarios,
what could possibly go wrong and could we plan
to avoid that and to thwart these problems
that would affect the military.
I didn't realize it till after I left there,
that my goodness,
I brought on myself because I've become so good
at dreaming up of all the negative possibilities.
And every one of them encased in fear,
again, always going back to fear.
So, you left the military along the way,
because you weren't married, living the traditional life,
you had always wanted to be a dad,
and you ended up getting in the foster care system
with some pretty troubled young men.
Can you talk about what happened
and maybe even up through what happened with Ryan,
after you began taking,
yeah, let's talk about that.
'Cause this really all starts playing in
to what's happening now.
I think too, going back to when I was around 21,
the seeds of this genesis come from
I had a boyfriend who died of a drug overdose
on his 21st birthday, his name was Jeff also.
Of course I had to grieve this internally
and couldn't let anyone know about it,
but I knew that so many young people,
especially young, gay men get caught up in drugs
because there's so much pain.
And I think that sometimes they track that to themselves
to alleviate the pain, and the suffering
that society doles out.
When I retired from the Air Force,
I decided two months after 9/11 after seeing the smoke go up
over my old place of employment,
I thought it's time to get out of town and take my kids.
So I moved to Phoenix, Arizona with no friends or family,
and I thought, okay we're gonna start out fresh.
Boy, it's been the worst
five years of my life,
(chuckling)
the most difficult five years of my life.
My eldest son who I had adopted when I was at the Pentagon,
Just when you thought things couldn't get worse, right?
He required hospitalization,
he'd suffered from bipolar disorder
from post traumatic stress disorder, depression,
and that poor kid just began to unravel.
It became really difficult,
and I remember one night he tried to kill me,
and the police took him away and he was on probation.
And through probation,
I was actually offered a job to work Juvenile Probation,
down in Maricopa County.
So I actually worked probation for a while
until then I was offered a position,
someone approached me and said,
"You apparently work real well with teenage boys,
we've got a lot of boys who need a father figure."
And like you said, I've always wanted to be a parent
in an unconventional way without the wife,
so I knew right away, this is something that I need to do.
And through the adoption of my first son
several years prior to that,
I knew that this is the way to go.
So I left Juvenile Probation
and became a therapeutic foster parent.
And the difference between therapeutic and regular
is the children who do not qualify
for regular foster care because of their
therapeutic needs and their diagnoses
are in specialized trained homes
with therapeutic foster parents.
Who require to be home 24/7 to be with these kids.
That's the direction my life took,
and suddenly the kids began to find me,
and today I have seven children.
And we'll talk about one of them in a moment.
So you have three adopted children and three foster children
right now.
That's right.
These kids that found their way to you,
to say that each one of them has challenges
would be fair, if not an understatement?
Absolutely.
What did this journey do to you?
Here you, in your own life are struggling
to keep your own spirits intact
and your will intact,
and then bring in these children,
or attract these children to you that need help as badly.
If not more than you.
What happened in that whole dynamic the last few years?
I think
to encase this entire scenario is to say that
I've always been a truth seeker and I've been looking
for all these answers that we all ask,
why am I here?
What is my purpose?
Where am I going?
Where did I come from?
In the back of my mind I'd always ask those questions.
And through my difficult life being gay and in the military,
and the things I'd experience,
it seems as though then I began once again
to attract myself through these other children
and the issues that they have.
My children, they range from gay, to straight,
to black, white, Hispanic,
just multicultural, multifaceted, multi-dynamic.
Their problems are all so unique but they're all difficult
issues that these children have to deal with.
And I see parts of myself in all my kids.
And my kids respond a lot to the way I am,
your children respond to the energy that the parent
puts forth.
So when the parent is very centered and stabled,
and peaceful and calm, you'll reflect that and the children
will feed that and you'll see that in them.
But if you're going through depression and difficult times,
boy your kids are gonna reflect that.
In the last five years I really began to view life
as a living hell,
and it was just a horrible place that we were sent to,
and I wanted to leave.
So many horrible things were happening.
I had severe financial issues
as a result of one of my children's hospitalizations,
and being sent to a residential treatment center.
Another child who got into crystal meth
and nearly killed himself,
I got him through drug treatment.
Things were just coming at me.
I was being barraged by these things.
Then last year, I think the ultimate hit me,
and that was the night my son Ryan died in my arms
at home,
so unexpectedly.
Within five to seven minutes you had a happy child,
and then he was gone.
What happened?
I remember it was Easter Sunday, March 27th 2005.
I was watching television in the living room,
my son Ryan was in the bedroom talking on the phone
with a friend,
and he was carving a lid for a goldfish bowl.
He had just gotten a pet frog that day,
and he wanted to put a lid on it to protect it from the cat.
As he was carving it he had the container held
against his chest,
and as he was poking holes into it
the container collapsed,
and the knife went directly into his heart.
And he told his friend on the phone,
"Oh shoot, I just cut myself, I gotta go,"
threw the phone down, pulled the knife out of his heart.
I remember he picked up a sock, covered it with a sock
and came to me and says,
"Dad, I cut myself.
I need help."
And I thought, well lemme get the first aid kit,
'cause boys were always hurtin' themselves
from rough play.
I saw the blood trickling down his chest
and I took him into the bathroom and put a compress on it,
mind you, I was a paramedic for eight years in the military,
so I thought I had a pretty good grasp on what to do.
Few minutes later, he had his arms around me, he says,
"Dad, I'm gonna faint, I'm gonna pass out."
And down he went like a load of bricks.
His glasses flew off, his head hit the toilet,
he was just floundering in my arms
and I screamed and called for my other son to help me.
He came in, I said you gotta help me, Ryan's hurt.
I've gotta call 911.
And after I called 911 and Ryan was laying on the ground,
on the floor in the bathroom,
he just opened his eyes, looked at me and says,
"Dad, I'm okay, I'm okay."
Then he closed his eyes,
his eyes then rolled back, his arms twitched,
he went into shock,
and I picked him up, carried him to the living room
waiting for the paramedics.
And while I was holding him, he passed away.
It was just so surreal, it happened so quickly.
I couldn't process it all, I was in shock.
Of course that began a long period of time
for my family and I
for going through the process of disbelief and denial,
and shock, to getting to the point of acceptance
that he was gone so quickly.
How did that affect you on the deepest levels,
in that you had considered taking your own life
on numerous occasions prior to that as a way
to merge with something more gentle and more kind,
than the world you were experiencing?
How did that all work together in your heart
and in your mind
when here someone who had not chosen to do this,
it was quite by accident, is suddenly gone?
I don't know if that's even a fair question,
it just is coming through my head right now.
My first thought was how did I attract this into my life?
How did I bring this about?
Course a parent will feel some guilt
that I couldn't protect my child,
that's my job is to protect my child.
But I couldn't do it.
Did I somehow, miraculously draw this into my life?
And I knew right away
there is no guilt, there is no blame,
but why did my son die?
And why did he die at his own hand albeit an accident?
Isn't that the irony?
That I had longed to take my life to find peace and joy,
not just to run from this life but to go somewhere
that was more kind and gentle, as you said.
Here it is my son,
apparently found that place, and why?
I spent a year in talk therapy trying to deal
with these issues.
I began devouring books
on after death and near life experiences,
which actually led me to Conscious Media Network.
In part of my search for answers of why my son died
and where did he go,
I found a number of interviews on Conscious Media Network
that really alleviated the pain.
And helped me to understand that we survive our death.
We don't really die as these infinite beings.
Our bodies pass away as organic substance,
but our living infinite creative being still exists.
And I knew then that my son was still alive,
and often times with me 'cause I felt him with me.
Which made me extremely grateful,
extremely grateful and I can't express how much
comfort that gave me
through your media network.
Thank you.
But even greater things were to come.
Yes.
As a result.
This experienced happened, there was a lot of grieving,
a lot to sort through,
but ultimately you started becoming more and more
depressed.
Yes.
And tell us what happened from there.
Well it seemed like it just began a spiral down.
Things got worse and I think I was reliving all those
scenarios in my mind every night.
It's like, oh my god, what if another one
of my children die?
How will I handle it?
I'll take my own life.
There were legal issues with my kids,
medical issues with my kids,
every day it was a barrage,
and I was on this downward spiral.
It was getting worse, it was getting worse.
I had no family and friends in Phoenix,
and I had no support network.
It was just me and my kids,
demanding and draining my energy from me every day,
and I wasn't being replenished.
I had gotten to a point,
it was actually toward the end of July,
and I remember
I began planning my exit from this life.
Now mind you, I don't think I ever wanted to commit suicide
as an end, it was a means to an end,
and the end was peace.
Peace and joy and contentment and happiness,
and all the things that I discovered
from people who've written thousands of near death
experiences,
that this is something I really wanted.
It's like, I wanna go to heaven.
I wanna go where life is so wonderful, so peaceful.
There's no fear, no anger, no hatred.
I wanted this so bad that I was willing to commit suicide
in order to gain it.
So I put my plan into action.
I began researching my life insurance policies to ensure
that my kids would get a payout.
I put together a living trust,
I put together my living will, my will.
My do not resuscitate.
In fact, it was the 28th of July
where I signed the documentation for the update of my will
to ensure everything was taken care of.
That was less than a month ago.
Right, less than a month ago.
And I had actually picked out the spot where I would
commit suicide and I would do it by gun.
Coincidentally, my grandfather committed suicide
by putting a gun in his mouth,
in his front yard of his home.
But I knew that I wouldn't do that because I don't want
my children to see me like that.
So I found a place out in the desert,
I had my gun,
I even practiced a few times.
Putting the barrel in my mouth,
what it would feel like to prepare myself.
It's in a sense something I didn't really wanna do,
but it was a means to an end.
So,
you had arrived at the final hours, really.
You had planned on executing the plan,
no pun intended obviously,
the next day.
Yeah, it was something that was gonna come very quickly
and I knew that I would not reach my 46th birthday,
which was August 20th.
And I had already committed to that,
that I would not go beyond 45 in this world.
This is something that was helping me to set a deadline.
Something that I could meet.
Then I remember it was,
I believe the 26th of July.
I was sitting in my bedroom at my desk, on the computer,
and I just felt this need to find some relief.
So I got on Conscious Media Network again.
(chuckling)
Because I had found so much relief there
from the words of so many wise and brilliant,
talented people that I thought maybe there's something
there today that could help me.
And sure enough I was looking through there and I saw
and interview that Lee had presented
on Brain State Technology.
At first I thought,
this isn't really something I think that could help me,
but I felt this nudge, take a look at it anyhow.
So I said, okay, I'll look at it.
And it was one of the newest ones
we had just posted, actually.
That's right.
And it wasn't the genre that I was accustomed to.
I would go for the heart and soul,
the things that would lift me up and make me feel good.
I thought, technology?
How could this interest me at this point in my life?
But I watched it.
And toward the end of it I realized, oh my god,
is this a possibility, is this something that could help me?
Now the bizarre thing is,
we have people watching from about 60 countries.
And our interviewees are from all over.
Coincidence or not, and I'd say not.
You and Lee Gerdes happened to be in the same city.
Absolutely, it just blew me away.
Because you know what,
I figured, oh he was in Hawaii,
or he was in Florida, somewhere really nice,
or in California.
Somewhere that it wasn't accessible,
and somewhere I couldn't get to.
You know, when depressed and feeling the way I did,
you could barely get up in the morning, tie your shoes.
Let alone travel a distance for hope.
Then when I realized he was in the area and I thought,
this is too good to be true.
I thought, well I'm gonna give him a call.
So the very next day I called and I said, you know what,
I saw the interview on Conscious Media Network,
I'm very interested,
I need help, is there any way that I can get in?
And they said, we're booked up for about two or three weeks.
My heart just sunk and I thought, okay fine.
This is a sick joke the universe is playin' on me.
Teasin' me, fine.
And she said, "Well just a minute, wait a minute.
We just had a cancellation for Friday morning the 28th,"
which was two days away.
"Why don't you come in and we'll do your brain mapping then
and we'll getcha started.
And then we can schedule your sessions in a couple weeks."
I thought okay, well that still doesn't help.
But I decided let's give it a try.
I said okay, well sign me up, I'll be in.
And so I committed myself, hold on for two more days.
But on the day that I was scheduled to come in for my
brain mapping, I thought,
do I really wanna go in?
What if they take away my courage to commit suicide,
and then all I'm left is living in a hell?
What if he takes away my--
Interesting though, yeah.
I was afraid that, what if he took that away from me
'cause that's the only thing I had of hope,
is my ability to pull the trigger.
It was my escape pod.
I don't want him to take it away from me and then leave me
with all my problems.
So I came in anyhow,
and I remember they hooked me up
and they did their process.
When they were finished, they told me,
we'll schedule you for a couple weeks,
and I'm like okay, whatever, fine.
Then one of the women came and said,
"You know what, we have a cancellation,
would you come back right now?
And we could start your brain training?"
I'm like yeah, absolutely.
So we went back, I sat in the chair,
and I'll never forget, I was sitting there
and I just started crying because I'd have sudden outburst
of crying from time to time from things that have
built up over the years.
I remember Lee walked in the room
and he was holding my file,
and he looked at me, says, "Jeff,
what are you so afraid of?"
This was after doing the brain mapping?
After the brain mapping, they knew nothing about my life.
Nothing, absolutely nothing.
I was just a stranger off the street.
He looked at the brain mapping data
and saw that I had an enormous amount of fear.
And he said, "You've got this layer of fear just above
your subconscious that is blocking the energy flow
in your brain."
And he told your brain is less than 8% of your body mass
but requires 40% of your energy,
and you're blocking all this energy.
I thought, yeah I am,
because I'm fatigued all the time,
I'm depressed.
I said I have no energy, I have no hope,
I have nothing.
And he saw that through my brain mapping.
Amazing.
It was just absolutely
amazing.
And they did the first session,
and I was excited about it,
and I felt something different.
I came out of the session,
of course I was still intending to commit suicide,
it wasn't like instant everything was changed in my life,
but I felt something going on in my head
and I couldn't identify it.
I thought, when could I come back in,
they said, "You know, we just had a cancellation
for 2 o'clock this afternoon."
(chuckling)
I said I'll be there, 2 o'clock.
I went home and came back at two, had another session.
And I was feeling better driving home, thinking,
I donno what it is but something's going on in my brain.
I can't put my finger on it.
I came back the next morning, they said we've got
two cancellations today.
Would you like more sessions?
I said absolutely, sign me up.
I went at 8:30 in the morning, then 11 o'clock.
And I'll never forget driving home at 12 o'clock noon,
thinking to myself,
I don't wanna commit suicide, I wanna live.
And I had done a complete 180 turn around.
Yet again, I couldn't explain why,
and perhaps Lee could explain why,
scientifically speaking.
But I couldn't explain why and it didn't really matter to me
if it was magic or science,
I was different, and I wanted to live.
They signed me up for I think 15 more sessions.
They had cancellation after cancellation
that opened up for me,
and Lee said, "This is so unusual.
We don't usually have this happen."
It was just miraculous, it gives me chills
just to think about it.
That here I am today, less than a month
from--
Your darkest hours.
From my darkest hours.
And that's the irony of it all that
in my greatest despair, came my greatest joy
and my greatest hope of life.
Sometimes I believe that I did attract many of those
things into my life to bring me down,
so I could have contrast to know where I wanted to be.
And where I wanted to be is in that state of joy,
that state of happiness.
For so long those were just words and I couldn't
self-actualize what it really meant.
But now, after Brain State Technology
and what Lee has done for me,
I'm starting to understand
what joy is.
Not by looking up the definition in the dictionary,
but understanding what joy is.
And understanding that I am a creative being,
and that I can create my reality, and I can live in joy
rather than live in fear and pain.
I've had so many amazing synchronistic events take place
in the last four weeks.
It's incredible.
An epilogue to this story is your children
are the ones that are also benefiting from this.
Not only are they benefiting from having a happier father
and a father who's more at peace and centered,
but I brought my 19-year-old son in, who's bipolar,
and who has PTSD
and also depression,
and his life is turning around.
He went through I think five or six sessions.
I was actually beginning to do SSI paperwork on him
for Social Security benefits,
and he just got a job two weeks ago.
He quit the job for another job that offered 75 cents more
an hour and closer to home.
It's just amazing, his life is turn around.
It's removed the blockage so that we can create
as the beings that we were intended to be.
To create the realities that we want.
And I feel that I'm on that path now.
(moving orchestral score playing)
Jeff is shining from the inside out and only one month
has passed since this filming from the days
he was in total despair.
If you want to see more about the technology
that he credits with saving his life,
watch the interview with Lee Gerdes and his cutting edge
Brain State Technologies.
Until next time,
thanks for watching.
(moving orchestral score playing)